# Where The Healthy People Are
Project Rationale: Health insurance companies could only use Adjusted Community Rating for pricing all health plans sold on the individual and small group insurance markets. One of the criteria for ACR is geographic area and many US states and territories set administrative counties as the boundary insurers can use for risk adjustment. We analyze county-level health data to see how well we can predict population health based on observable factors. 

Methodology: We use data from the RWJF County Health Rankings & Roadmap project, which includes 30 health factors, to fit a Least-angle Lasso Regression model (Scikit-learn) designed to optimize its Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) while predicting premature death as measured by Years of Potential Life Lost in a given county in 2018. This model performs feature selection by design through Lasso regularization, which is solved with the more computationally efficient Least-angle regression algorithm, and uses cross-validation to optimize the model's BIC to balance the minimization of features having non-zero coefficients with the quality of the model's fit to the data. We made sure to standardize the data prior to fitting the model to ensure difference in the relative scale of the health factors didn't undermine the results. 
  
The initial results retained 16 of the 30 health factors in the data as features. We then fit an Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) Model from the StatsModels library to evaluate the model results and summary statistics, including variance inflation factors, in more depth. Upon closer inspection of this additional information, we were able to eliminate 2 more health factors from the set of features with negligible loss in model performance. With the 14 remaining health factors, we generated interaction and quadratic polynomial features and fit another Least-angle Lasso Regression model optimized on BIC, which selected 3 of the interactions. We again fit an OLS model on the 14 remaining health factors and 3 new interactions, and we were ultimately able to select 13 health factors and 2 of their interactions as our final feature set.
  
An OLS model fit to the final feature set had an R-squared of 0.850 which was exactly the same as that of the baseline model, which was fit to all 30 health factors. Similarly when evaluating the testing data with the final and baseline model, results showed the final model had an R-squared value just 0.0011 lower than the baseline model (0.8374 vs. 0.8385), implying a slightly more overfit model. We achieved our goal of determining the most important subset of health factors without sacrificing model performance. We ross-validated all of the OLS models throughout the process to help justify our decision making.
  
Presentation Link: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vHJyUb5ubBKMJhIvFHG3cZ5jyBuqF6pLcCf4nZIZbqo/edit?usp=sharing
